Execution Instructions:
This project is provided as a Jupyter Notebook and can be executed in two different ways: using a pretrained model (recommended) or 
training the model from scratch. Both options are supported by the same notebook.

Recommended execution: using the pretrained model
The notebook is designed to allow full execution without retraining the model. In this case, a pretrained model is loaded and the training phase is skipped.

To run the notebook with the pretrained model, the following steps must be followed. First, open the notebook in Google Colab. Before executing the notebook,
create a folder named "models". The folder must be located in the root directory of the execution environment (/content/models/). 
Then upload the file named “model_final_project.pth” to the Colab environment. The file must be placed inside the folder.

Once the pretrained model file is uploaded, the notebook must be executed cell by cell, starting from the first cell. 
All cells should be run sequentially until reaching the training cell.

The training cell is Cell 8, which begins with this: 
"from torch.utils.data import DataLoader
from torch.nn.utils.rnn import pad_sequence
# Function to process and pad the sequences in each batch
def collate_fn(batch): "

This cell must not be executed when using the pretrained model, since the model parameters have already been learned.

The cell immediately following the training cell, which computes the evaluation or test loss, must also not be executed, 
as it depends on objects and functions defined during training.

After skipping these two cells, the execution can continue normally. Only the final cell, which contains qualitative examples and sanity checks,
should be executed. This last cell runs the inference procedure and generates natural language summaries for selected Python code snippets.

Optional execution: training the model from scratch

If the model is trained from scratch, all notebook cells must be executed sequentially, except for the cell that loads the pretrained model weights,
which must be skipped. 
Execute of course, the training, and the test loss and evaluation cell.

Once training is completed, the model can be used for inference within the same session.

The recommended execution environment is Google Colab using Python 3. GPU acceleration with an NVIDIA T4 is supported and recommended for training,
although it is not strictly required. All experiments can also be executed on CPU, at the cost of longer training times.
